🚀 Building Codexel.ai – “Explain like I’m 15”
(we’ll do everything in the browser; no fancy server needed for now)
Step 0 – What we’re making today
A simple, free version of Codexel.ai that anyone can visit, type code, and get AI help.
We’ll use:
• GitHub (to store your code)
• GitHub Codespaces (a free computer in the cloud)
• Vercel (to put your site on the internet)
All of these are free for small projects.
Step 1 – Make your free accounts (5 min)
Go to github.com → Sign Up → pick username “codexel-ai”.
Go to vercel.com → “Continue with GitHub” → same account.
Step 2 – Copy a starter project (2 min)
Open this link (in a new tab):
https://github.com/stackblitz-labs/pkg.pr.new
Click the green “Use this template” button.
Name the repo “codexel-web” (keep it Public).
Click “Create repository from template”.
Step 3 – Open the project in a free cloud computer (1 min)
On your new repo page, click the green “Code” button → “Codespaces” → “Create codespace on main”.
A VS Code window opens in your browser. Wait ~30 s for it to finish loading.
Step 4 – Add the AI helper (5 min)
In the left sidebar, click the square “Extensions” icon.
Search “codeium” → click “Install”.
A pop-up appears → click “Sign in with GitHub” → allow.
That’s it—Codeium is now your free AI copilot inside the editor.
Step 5 – Customize the home page (10 min)
In the file tree, open src/pages/index.astro (or index.tsx if template uses Next.js).
Change the title text to:
<h1>Codexel.ai – Your free AI coding workspace</h1>
Save: Ctrl-S (or Cmd-S on Mac).
Step 6 – Launch a preview (1 min)
In the bottom terminal, type:
npm run dev
Click the blue “Open in Browser” popup, or open the link shown (something like https://localhost:3000).
You should now see your new site running.
Step 7 – Put it on the internet (2 min)
Go back to the Codespaces tab.
In the terminal, type:
npx vercel --prod
When asked, sign in with GitHub (same account).
Accept all defaults (press Enter each time).
Vercel will give you a link like https://codexel-web.vercel.app – that’s your live site!
Step 8 – Share it (30 s)
Copy the Vercel link and post it anywhere.
Anyone can open the link, create an account (free), and start coding with the AI assistant you just set up.
🎉 Done! You now have a working “Replit-like” site on your new Codexel.ai domain.
Next weekend you can add logins, save buttons, and more languages—but for today you’re live and free.